model driven programmability
NETCONF
RESTCONF
advantages and disadvantages of catalyst 9k
network service orchestrators
ansible and ansible-playbook to manage infranstructure or Terraform
BGP, OSPF, STP, RIP


model driven programmability:
allows our data to be structured using YANG

NETCONF: Network configuration using YANG models
RESTCONF: Rest API configuration using YANG models

catalyst 9k is series of hardware switches that simplifies the design, provision and maintenance ...
... of security across the entire access network to the network core
#https://www.com-4t.rs/en/blog/5-benefits-cisco-catalyst-9000-switches

advantages:
1. it uses DNA archetecture for security
2. uses YANG models to increase speed of response
3. wired and wireless network can be configured
4. IOT archetecture can be configured
5. can intergrate with cloud environment

disadvantages:
1. power supply (if power outage, it shuts down network)
2. SSD storage (needs physical storage)
3. expensive
4. stacking box over box 

Network service orchestrators
#https://www.anutanetworks.com/network-service-orchestration/
Refers to a software solution that helps network operators configure and automate multiple network elements as per a given service definition

A network service typically spans multiple network elements such as routers, firewalls, load-balancers, VPN gateways, WAN optimizers, Web Security Services. 
These elements can be physical or virtual appliances and often sourced from different vendors
The network elements may reside in an enterprise Data Center (also known as Private Cloud) or Public cloud (AWS VPC)

BGP - Border gateway protocol designed to exchange routing and reachability information among autonomous systems on the internet
OSPF - Open Shortest Path First used to find the best path for packets as they pass through a set of connected networks
STP - Spanning tree protocol builds a loop free logical topology 
RIP - Routing information protocol uses hop count as a routing metric to prevent loops

